Workflows 9.4 content — part A (#6048)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/workflows/steps/while.md

---
navigation_title: While
applies_to:
  stack: ga 9.4
  serverless: ga
description: Reference for the while step, which loops while a KQL condition evaluates to true.
products:
  - id: kibana
  - id: cloud-serverless
  - id: cloud-hosted
  - id: cloud-enterprise
  - id: cloud-kubernetes
  - id: elastic-stack
---

# While [workflows-while-step]

The `while` step runs its nested steps repeatedly as long as a {{kib}} Query Language (KQL) condition evaluates to true. The condition is re-evaluated at the end of every iteration.

Use `while` for polling patterns: checking a status until it reaches `ready`, retrying an operation until it succeeds, or waiting for an external job to complete. For iterating over a known collection, use [`foreach`](/explore-analyze/workflows/steps/foreach.md) instead.

## Parameters

| Parameter | Location | Type | Required | Description |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `name` | top level | string | Yes | Unique step identifier. |
| `type` | top level | string | Yes | Must be `while`. |
| `condition` | top level | string | Yes | KQL expression evaluated each iteration. The loop continues while it is true. |
| `steps` | top level | array | Yes | Loop body. |

> | `max-iterations` | top level | number or object | No | Cap on iterations. Bare number is treated as `{ limit: N, on-limit: continue }`. Use the object form to opt into `on-limit: fail`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `max-iterations` | top level | number or object | No | Limit for number of iterations. Bare number is treated as `{ limit: N, on-limit: continue }`. Use the object form to opt into `on-limit: fail`. |
```

| `iteration-timeout` | top level | duration | No | Per-iteration timeout. |
| `iteration-on-failure` | top level | object | No | Per-iteration error-handling policy. Same shape as `on-failure`. |

:::{warning}
`while` has no default `max-iterations`. Without an explicit cap, a `while` loop runs as long as its condition holds. Always set `max-iterations` on loops that depend on external state to avoid runaway executions.
:::

### `max-iterations` shape

```yaml
# Bare number: default `on-limit` is `continue` (the step succeeds when the cap is hit)
max-iterations: 60

> # Object form: opt into `on-limit: fail` to fail the workflow when the cap is reached

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Object form: opt into `on-limit: fail` to fail the workflow when the limit is reached
```

max-iterations:
  limit: 60
  on-limit: fail
```

## Loop-local context

Inside the `steps` block of a `while`, the following variables are available:

| Variable | Contains |
|---|---|
| `while.iteration` | Zero-based iteration counter. |

> ## Example: poll until a job finishes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example: Poll until a job finishes
```
